Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear fellow practitioners, there are many
misconceptions that holding
ancestral commemoration ceremonies at temples is wasteful.
Today, I'm here to answer a question from a
friend who shares this view, or
perhaps it's not your personal opinion
but you're asking for some reason. "
Hello, Ms. Yen. I am a Buddhist practitioner
at Ba Vang Temple. I have a
long-standing concern that I hope you can help me with. The anniversary of the
passing of the Venerable Maha Sa Mon Tue Bich Pho Giac
Thien Su is approaching. I see that every year
our temple holds a very large ceremony, but
I have a question: The ancestors are
enlightened practitioners,
so is
n't holding a ceremony for them too formal and wasteful of everyone's money, effort,
and time?
If we Buddhists participate in the ceremony,
what benefits do we gain? I hope
you can answer my question. Thank you, Ms. Yen. Dear fellow
practitioners, the
ancestors are enlightened practitioners, so of course they are...
He never thought of expecting Buddhists to
comfort him. That's something he didn't
expect. No one expects that. Even
as a Buddhist, I
don't need my children to comfort me. If I were
enlightened and knowledgeable, I would think the same way.
But why do temples keep
organizing the Ancestor Commemoration Ceremony
? There's a
very humane meaning here, dear fellow practitioners. It's
called "we exist because of our ancestors." We
exist because of the Buddha. That's why we often
commemorate many holidays about the
Buddha's life: the Buddha's
birth, the Buddha's renunciation, the Buddha's enlightenment, the
Buddha's passing into
Nirvana. Do we think that
organizing these holidays is wasteful?
No one thinks that way. Buddhists
feel very happy when they commemorate
these days because they still remember them,
meaning their hearts are still directed
towards the Buddha. As for how it's organized, that depends on
each person's
different way of thinking. For example, some people
think that on the
Buddha's anniversaries, they should go to the
mountains to practice meditation, but others...  The
organization is very large, with the idea
of ​​letting many people know about the
Buddha and disseminating information widely.
For example,
someone who has never known about Buddhism or
heard of the Buddha might
see a very grand procession with
beautifully dressed Buddhists singing and celebrating. They might ask, "What is that
ceremony? What festival is this?" They might be told, "It's Buddha's Birthday." They might ask, "What is
Buddha's Birthday? It's the
Buddha's birthday." But then they might ask, "Who is the
Buddha?
What's his birthday? Why are there so many
people singing and celebrating
like this?" This is how people learn about the
Buddha. That's one way the
organizers of large ceremonies think about the
benefit of all beings. The organizers
also don't look down on those who
quietly practice to show their
gratitude. However, each approach has a
different way of guiding people, for example, the
organizers of those grand ceremonies.  They find the
Buddha's teachings so wonderful, they have already
practiced them, they see the benefits, and they
will diligently practice them as well. They
want more people to know and
practice them, and for more people to be inspired to
practice. Because of the two minds,
naturally, the mind of the person who
practices and finds it so wonderful and wants to promote it to
others is one
of giving, and naturally, the merit and
blessings will be greater. As the Buddha taught in the sutra, "
Venerable Lord, if two people are equal in precepts
and equal in wisdom, one who practices
giving and one who does not,
what is the difference between them?" The Buddha said, "
Two people are equal in
precepts and equal in wisdom, but
one who practices giving will surpass the other
in the next life in terms of reputation (a
better name), secondly in
appearance (a better physical appearance), and
thirdly in wealth (a
greater karmic reward). So
we can see that even though
you observe the precepts and your wisdom is
good, you are still a person who...  There are people who
also observe the precepts, but they also add
giving. Therefore, there's this phenomenon in the world:
Two people have the same level of wisdom,
but one person
only ever remains an employee throughout their life, while the other
rises to
very high positions, for example,
becoming a wealthy person. This is because in a
previous life, they gave alms, so now
they have more wealth and a greater reputation.
Therefore, giving is still
better. Commemorating these holidays
allows many people to know, many to feel
joy, many to be happy. Both
the organizers and
participants benefit.
That's what I'm saying about the Buddha. Now, let's
talk about the
patriarchs. Now, if there were only the Buddha
and no one to practice, would the
scriptures have been passed down to this day? Would the
practice have been passed down to this day?
Therefore, the Buddha's merit is immense, but the
merit of the patriarchs who practiced to preserve the
lineage of Buddhism is also very great,
dear fellow practitioners. That's the Buddha's grace for us.  The gratitude we owe to the
ancestors and practitioners is immense, perhaps
99.9999, not less than many other
practitioners. Because if the Buddha had been
born and then no one followed him
anymore, we would be completely ignorant
and wouldn't know who the Buddha was. Therefore,
we know about the Buddha thanks to the grace of the ancestors. That's
why we hold this memorial ceremony to express our
profound gratitude, our deep appreciation.
We hope that practitioners will continue this tradition forever.
During
this Ancestor Commemoration ceremony, our masters and monks will transmit the
precepts to us, and we
will practice the Eight Precepts.
So we still have the precepts, and we've
added another day to our practice. Normally,
we would only practice the Eight Precepts on the eighth day of the month,
but today, during this month's
Ancestor Commemoration, the masters transmit the precepts to
us, so we increase our precepts and our
gratitude grows even greater.
Because in this ceremony, we are
more joyful, and we are reminded of the great
spiritual achievements of the ancestors.  We
become more diligent, and we realize that our
practice is still lacking. Therefore, we
follow the example of the Master to practice more, to continue
practicing diligently. The Ancestor Commemoration Ceremony
is very beneficial, helping us to
increase our gratitude, increase our diligence, uphold the
precepts, and practice generosity. We
gain so much,
so we cannot say that the Ancestor Commemoration Ceremony is
wasteful. There is no waste at all; so much merit and
blessings are
created from this Ancestor Commemoration Day.
We will enjoy them in future lives for who knows how long.
Do you agree, dear fellow practitioners? Even in
this life, because of our practice,
we also eliminate so much karmic debt.
Therefore,
if we are not grateful to the Ancestor,
do not help others to be grateful to the Ancestor, and
do not create this ceremony to
maintain this lineage of gratitude, then by the time the
Ancestor Commemoration Day comes around, we will forget
who the Ancestor is. If we don't grasp the teachings, we
won't even know who the Ancestor is anymore. We will be ungrateful, dear fellow
practitioners. I'm just giving an example,
like my master...  We should stop at some point,
doing everything we can to make
people not even know
who built this temple, who taught these monks and
nuns. That would be wrong. Therefore,
we must always mention, whether our
master is still alive or not, the
arduous beginnings
of building the temple, the hardships of educating the monks and nuns, the
many evils they faced. Only then can
we truly appreciate our master's kindness and follow his
example to overcome the
obstacles and difficulties in our lives and
in our practice.
Therefore, the example of the
patriarchs is very precious and should not be lost. I
also sincerely hope that every aspect of the
patriarchs' practice should be recounted in detail,
without losing anything, dear fellow practitioners.
Just like when we hear about the
practice of Patriarch Tran Nhan
Tong, we learn that he,
like the Buddha Shakyamuni, renounced the
throne and lived a life of asceticism.  We have only just begun to
remember the benevolent grace of Emperor Tran
Nhan Tong. If we were
always without anything else,
how could we remember? How could
we strive for enlightenment? Gratitude leads to virtue and
blessings. But if
we do things that
cause
people to forget our gratitude, that's
dangerous. Therefore, if we don't organize the
Ancestor Commemoration Ceremony, people will
gradually forget the gratitude of our ancestors, thus
becoming ungrateful. The Ancestor Commemoration Ceremony has
many benefits, merits, and
great significance. Therefore, I urge all
esteemed members of our club
to welcome the Ancestor Commemoration Ceremony with a
grateful heart, a desire to participate, to contribute,
and
to uphold the precepts on this day. And I
hope everyone remembers the
origins of Ba Vang Pagoda, the karmic connection that led us to where we are
today.
This grateful heart allows us to cultivate and
attain Buddhahood.  Fellow practitioners,
because filial piety is also a blessing, everything is
in the heart of gratitude to all esteemed
practitioners. Therefore, I wish all esteemed practitioners
joy in preparing for and participating in the ceremony, and
joy in the achievement of the Ancestor Commemoration Ceremony. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]
[Applause] [music] [Applause] [
music]
Ni y